+++
date = "2016-08-21T00:00:00"
draft = false
title = "about"
section_id = 0
weight = 0
+++

# Welcome to our Lab!

Our group is interested in the field of quantitative biology -- the use of
computational tools to understand and advance biological sciences. Our primary
goal is to develop methods to quantify, analyze, and detect patterns in
biomedical data, particularly (but not exclusively!) data that comes from
imaging modalities.

Our research revolves around three primary focuses:

### <i class="fa fa-cogs" aria-hidden="true"></i> Engineering Methods Development

We take an engineering approach to biomedical problems. We develop tools for
analyzing large datasets and images, building computational models to describe
disease states, and building complex prediction algorithms to detect and
diagnose disease. These tools generate new hypotheses to advance biological
science.

### <i class="fa fa-flask" aria-hidden="true"></i> Biological Systems Application

The techniques we use can be applied to many fields; however, as biomedical
scientists, our interest is in the complex world of biology and medicine. In the
classroom, we are developing truly cross-disciplinary engineers and biologists
capable not only of excelling in their fields but in communicating and
collaborating with experts from across the academic world.

### <i class="fa fa-hospital-o" aria-hidden="true"></i> Clinical Collaboration

We believe that biomedical science research should inspire changes in clinical
practice that improve patient care. To that end, we collaborate with clinical
practitioners in the [Kaleida Health network](http://www.kaleidahealth.org/)
across a wide variety of disciplines to share ideas and innovations, which in
turn guide our research and development efforts.

### <i class="fa fa-group" aria-hidden="true"></i> We Are Recruiting!

We are always looking for talented students and collaborators interested in
machine learning, structure and functional modeling, image and volumetric
analysis, and advancing clinical care through application of computational
methods. If you would like to have a chat to discuss potential collaboration or
mentorship opportunities, please [drop a line](#contact)!
